---
title: The First Directive - The Strong Support
icon: pen
date: 2024-01-01
pageview: false
category:
  - Politics
tag:
  - Directives
  - Premises
locale: en-US
locales:
  ar-SA: /posts/banana/1.html
---

# The Strong Support

"May Allah have mercy on Lot; he was indeed seeking refuge in a strong support. Had I stayed in prison as long as Joseph did, I would have responded to the herald. And we have more right [to doubt] than Abraham when he said: {Do you not believe? He said: Yes, but only that my heart may be at ease.}"

* **Hadith Authentication Summary:** [Sahih/Authentic]
* **Narrator:** Abu Hurayrah | **Scholar:** Al-Bukhari | **Source:** Sahih al-Bukhari | **Page or Number:** 4694
* **Grading:** Reported by Al-Bukhari (4694) and Muslim (151).

## What is the "Strong Support" that the Prophet of Allah, Lot, desired?

The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) mentioned the Prophet of Allah, Lot, when his guests came to him. Fearing for them from his people, Lot said: {If only I had against you some power or could take refuge in a strong support}. 

The Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) remarked: "May Allah have mercy on Lot; he was indeed seeking refuge in a strong support," meaning: How could he wish to find a helper and protector to shield his guests from his people when he was already seeking refuge in a Strong Support—namely, Allah, the Almighty, the All-Powerful?! 

Lot (peace be upon him) had not been heedless of Allah, the Exalted, nor had he abandoned his trust in Him. Rather, Lot mentioned the material *means* (reasons). When he saw his people’s persistence in demanding immorality from his guests and felt powerless to repel them, he said: "I wish I had supporters and aides to help me push you back, or that I could resort to and join a clan that would protect and shield me from you, so I could stand between you and what you desire from my guests." 

Because he mentioned the material means alone, a listener might assume he had forgotten Allah; therefore, our Prophet (peace and blessings be upon him) intended—by saying "May Allah have mercy on Lot; he was indeed seeking refuge in a strong support"—to teach us not to say what might give such a false impression.